Tata Consultancy Services is an IT services, consulting and business solutions organization that delivers real results to global business, ensuring a level of certainty no other firm can match. TCS offers a consulting-led, integrated portfolio of IT and IT-enabled infrastructure, engineering and assurance services. This is delivered through its unique Global Network Delivery Model, recognized as the benchmark of excellence in software development. TCS operates in 44 countries and has 199 branches across the world. TCS has been recognized by Forbes as one of the World’s Most Innovative Companies. For a large company like TCS, to digitize the program, some key decisions had to be taken such as what initiatives would be driven under the program banner and how to standardize them. This included, for example, shared spaces for knowledge repositories, flexible options for virtual or face to face competitions, hardware and “garage-style” space for hands-on experiments, and webinars for sharing innovations. The rich repository of the Playbooks and the plethora of digital tools put in place enabled TCS to scale execution of these within the organization such as through specific business teams, units, or client relationship teams. A strong communication mechanism was put in place to highlight the successes of the program and feature case studies of employees who had participated. This amplification helped TCS increase program engagement and the curiosity to get involved. Most importantly, they also celebrated failure as, in the case of innovation, ideas often do not get implemented, despite exhibiting great potential in the early stages. The IT Infrastructure Services division of Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) intended to give Indian businesses access to infrastructure, applications and other resources from the cloud. TCS sourcing platform helps Tata Sons fast-track sustainable and inclusive sourcing: 6
Tata Sons wanted to standardize and harmonize sourcing processes across the group companies, simplifying it for the buyers and bringing greater transparency to harness demand. They selected TCS sourcing platform and services, in order to leverage category expertise, proven sourcing process and best practices, unique collaboration model, and technology leverage. TCS platform-based sourcing helped Tata Sons aggregate and rationalize diverse needs across the group companies and rapidly strategize group-level sourcing while overcoming challenges of scale, complexity, supply risk, quality, and cost. The solution encompasses an active engagement model, aggregating complex demand, early supplier feedback, and establishing critical success factors, cross-functional collaboration, inclusive sourcing, and RFX(Request for [x]) management. The solution enables rapid formulation and execution of sourcing strategy, while bringing long-term cost certainty for the group companies. Tata Sons has transformed the group sourcing and started to reap benefits in terms of savings through competitive pricing, most favorable contract terms, and active use of contracts. At TCS Limited, they truly trust that the activities of the association and its locale are highly reliable. It is through steady and cooperative communications with the outside partners that the Company endeavors to end up a resource for the networks where it works. With a little commitment as a gift, they help uncommon necessities in young ladies' relationships. Their central goal is to convey groundbreaking help to the people who required it the most. As a productive accomplice in the network, TCS has been endeavoring solid activity to understand its social duty targets, along these lines building an incentive for its clients and network. The TCS likewise gives money related and equipment backing to a few different exercises, for example, setting up another school Medical camp to address local explicit medicinal issues, legitimate sanitation offices for young ladies and so on, and furthermore they bolster various activities concentrated on destroying absence of education and enabling individuals. Every company needs to have an edge over the other so that it can progress. A balanced combination of the right strategies is what makes it tick. TCS is one such company that has the exact combination of growth strategies. The business model of TCS revolves around IT Services and IT Consulting. 7
The association has an exhaustive game plan of IP based programming game plans, joined with a broad assortment of IT Services to address the dynamic necessities of an arrangement of industry verticals including Banking, Insurance, Capital Markets, Asset and Wealth organization (BFSI). They similarly give answers for various verticals, for instance, Government, Manufacturing, Distribution, Telecom, and Healthcare. The business activities of the Company are broadly isolated into two classes, viz. IT Solutions and The Transaction Services IT Solutions business contains programming things and IT enabled organizations while the trade organizations include BPO and KPO organizations. The association has a fair portfolio and has a prevalent proximity in rapidly creating rising economies. The business of the association has a wide base with more than 1000 powerful customers who are alluringly using the association's things. The association has spread crosswise over 50 countries across more than six operational geologies, viz. South Asia, Asia Pacific (APAC), Middle East and Africa, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Western Europe (WE) and North America (US). The TCS business is, all things considered, isolated into Emerging Markets and Developed Markets.